Builder's Buddy v1.6 by Newfie Pendragon

Contributions by Kalidor Lazarno & Androclese Torgeson

Packaged by Ron Overdrive

this script is distributed with permission that it may be used in
any way, or may be further modified/included in resale items.
HOWEVER, if this script is used as part of a for-sale product,
it is required that appropriate credit be given to Newfie for
the script (or portions used in derivatives).  That's a fair price
in exchange for unlimited use of this script, dontcha think? 

Ok now that I got that out of the way for Newfie let me explain for him what Builder's Buddy is and how to use it.

Builder's Buddy is a packaging tool much like Rez-Foo and Rez-Faux, but free and open source. If you've never heard of Rez-Foo or Rez-Faux let me explain what they are used for. Now many people are in the business of building homes, clubs, amusement parks, etc. etc. Many of these are large builds, too large and/or prims are too far apart for everything to be linked. In the old days we'd simply tell the customer to make sure they're in edit mode before rez'ing their purchase so they can move their new build around and into position. Another method that was commonly used was known as the "Peg Method" wich would be a set of pegs, blocks, or some other marker to be used by the end user to line up each section of the build. Obviously this made the job of setting up one's home rather annoying especially if SL glitches causing whats known as "Prim Drift" where chunks of the build will slightly unalign themselves as you're moving the build around. 

Packaging tools like Builder's Buddy eliminates the hassle of constructing the end product for the customer wich makes customer service ALOT easier and far less occuring.

How to create a Package:

1. Rez an object (cube, sphere, what ever) call it something like PACKAGE and Drop the BuildersBuddy 1.6 - Base script inside of it. Then put it into a relatively good position that will be easy for the buyer to see and move around for easy positioning. I recomend somewhere above your build or what one person suggested, make the PACKAGE your base. Each PACKAGE has a 96m radius, meaning 5 would effectively cover an entire sim at ground level and up to 96m above. I also recomend noting how high the PACKAGE object is above the lowest piece of your build so you can tell buyers where to place the package before rez'ing otherwise the build will end up underground till they relocate it.

2. Place the Component script into each linkset of your build.

3. Click on your package object. A Blue dialog box will drop. Hit RECORD to record all the locations of the linksets.

4. Copy all of your linksets into your package object. Recomend you also change perms to No Transfer unless you want your package to be passed around.

DONE! You've now created a new package for to be sold to the general public.

How to use the Package:

Rez a package on the ground and click on it. You will get a blue dialog menu with the following options:

RECORD: This records the where abouts of linksets containing the Component scripts.

Reset: Forgets the position of all parts

BUILD: Rez's the scripted linksets and puts them back in their recorded places in relavance to the package.

CLEAN: DeRez's the scripted linksets.

DONE: Removes the Component scripts from the linksets fixing them in place unless moved manually.

Position: Moves and rotates the linksets into position according to the Package's height and rotation.

When using a package to rez a build simply place out a package. If the package was noted by the author to be at a certain height above the ground then move the package to that height. Recomend using the XYZ position boxes in the object tab while in edit mode.

Click on it for the Blue Dialog and choose BUILD to rez the pieces.

If the build needs to be adjusted in any way simply move/rotate the package and the pieces will follow!

When you are finished simply get the blue dialog menu and choose DONE to fix the linksets into place or CLEAN to simply derez the linksets.
