INTRODUCTION

     The following are "links", known as Landmarks, that when clicked on will take you to a specific location in SL.  

     Sadly, some places move or vanish from SL, so not all Landmarks may "work".  If you are not taken to the right place, then you can trying using the SEARCH button to find their new location.  Please report any "dead" Landmarks to me -- thanks.  Moreover, please tell me of any great Landmarks I might have missed!

     These particular Landmarks will take you to various places where you can find help, or relax.


NOTES ON LANDMARKS

     When you click on a Landmark link in a notecard, it may not take you directly to that location (you have been diverted by a telehub or Landing Point).  A Landmark is broken down like this:  Name of Place, Sim Name (coordinates).  Most important are the Sim Name and coordinates.  If you hover your mouse cursor over a Landmark link, you will see the full Landmark if it's visually cut off.  I have tried to Landmark exact coordinates, often within a specific location or shop, but you may be teleported to a general location.  Look at the top of your screen, you will see your current coordinates.  

     If you do not appear where I have indicated in the Landmark link, you can open your Map (click [Map] at the bottom of the screen), enter the Sim Name in the [Search] text box, press the Enter key or [Search], and then enter the three numbered coordinates below in [Location].  Then click [Teleport].  If you still don't end up at that exact location in the Landmark link, look around your screen for a red beacon and red arrow -- follow it to the destination.

     Unfortunately, if people move things, you still may not end up exactly where I intended you to be.  If that's the case, it's time to explore :-)  Obviously if it's clear that venue no longer exists at that location, you will need to resort to the [Search] at the bottom of your screen.


HELP

The Shelter
     The Shelter is a non-profit recreation center for new residents, and supporters of new residents.   Highly recommended!
􀀎

Support for Healing
     An island in SL associated with a non-profit website (supportforhealing.com) that provides emotional support for anyone who needs it.   A beautiful group of individuals.
􀀌
􀀕

NCI (New Citizens Incorporated)
     Designed primarily for new residents, but open to all, NCI offers in-person advice from our team of NCI Helpers and NCI Land Officers classes, contests and social events, interactive tutorials, freebies, help notecards and landmarks, sandboxes for building, a new residents mall, Ginny Gremlin park, games, and newsstands with free in-world publications.
􀀓
􀀩
􀀆

Second Life Library/Info Island
     Programs, events, books, audio books, exhibits, web resources and more.  There's always live help at the Reference Desk (usually the person with "Reference Librarian" above their heads), so if you're stuck and require immediate aid, try there.
􀀟

Orientation Stations - Need Help?
     Need to brush up on your beginning skills? Try out all the tutorials from Help Island here! 
(Landmark not permitted but here are the coordinates)  Brampton 160, 188, 0

Isabel Infohub - BY SHELTER DEVELOPMENT
     Find Linden info and help, or simply enjoy the tranquil waterfalls.  Just a short ride to a popular haven for those new to SL.
􀀄

Lewis Nerd's Help Guides
     While not available in world, Lewis has an excellent website of information that is particularly useful to new residents.  See the section entitled "Help Guides".
http://www.lewisnerd.com/


BUILDING

Ivory Tower Library of Primitives
     Learn to build.
􀀉

Texture Tutorials
     Learn to texture.
􀀠

Linden Script Tutorial Exhibition
     Learn to script.
􀀇
􀀨

Free Clothes/Jewelry TUTORIALS & Supplies
     Learn to make clothes.
􀀒

Academy of Second Learning
     Come to school for classes, workshops, help sessions, free education in a university setting to set your creativity loose in SL
􀀅

Design Center, Idea City
     Intermediate building & texturing tutorials and lessons.
 􀀫    
 
 The Particle Laboratory
      Want to learn particles?  Hop on the balloon and ride up to the Particle Lab!  New particle scripts, examples'n'explanations!
􀀀

Dreams Tutorians and Sandbox
     Tutorials/sandbox/free textures/classes formal and informal.
􀀬


RELAXATION

Emerald's Japanese Hot Springs & Steam Bath 
     Lovely place to relax by the waterfalls and listen to the calming music
􀀡

Peaceful Retreat
     A nice place to just hang out.
􀀃

Serenity Falls
     While this is a vendor's sim to sell their wares (which are wonderful), the region is just gorgeous to wander around in.
􀀈

Isle of Wyrms - Here be Dragons!
     The home of Dragons by Daryth. A haven for mythical creatures, artists and free spirits.
􀀊

Zen Gardens of Achemon
     Sit and relax in a quiet environment.  You will find various types of wildlife here.
􀀋

Lauks Nest
     Explore the park and temple ruins, treehouse,  falls and the cave. Feed the birds. 
􀀖

Pathfinder's Picks
     Obtain the latest notecard (updated weekly) of 10 "cool new things to explore in Second Life".
􀀣

Svarga
     Relax in or explore the castle, grounds and temple complex.
􀀍

Cave Rua 
     Gorgeous Underwater builds.
􀀞

Caledon
     Caledon is a series of Victorian themed Islands, which are great fun to explore.  Most individuals are dressed accordingly, and nearly everyone is very friendly.
􀀥

Grendel's Children
     A work of art.  Organic and stunning.  Set aside an entire evening or day for exploration.  If you have L$30, exploring the region with the aid of the Draklet Egg is an excellent journey -- and you receive a wonderful pet dragon at the end!  There's also a Freebie section!
􀀗

Silk Water's Mountain- Japanese Village
     It's Japan in Winter ! Beautiful japanese/chinese styled village, asian marketplace and the Dragon Atrium. 
􀀢

Cho no Chashitsu (blatant self-promotion)
     A public Japanese styled garden with tea house for all to enjoy.
􀀤

Neko no Jinja (blatant self-promotion)
     Whimiscal Japanese shrine.
􀀪

The Blue Lotus Okiya
     The 100% Traditional performing arts of Geisha and Relaxation at its finest. 
Unfortunately they do not allow Landmarks.  Please use the Search to find their location.

The Lost Gardens of Apollo
     *Relax*Explore*Enjoy* Beautiful sim for your private moments, or just plain relaxation. Many secluded spots. Rules apply.
􀀏

Prim Hearts
     Visit the Amusement Park where you can buy any ride! Or, if you are not interested in buying rides, just test them all for free.
􀀙

Livingtree
     A beautiful, welcoming, safe and nonjudgmental Island.
􀀔

Lake Gnoma
     Come visit this beautiful wilderness park! The camp features canoes, archery, and more.
􀀚

Serenite
     Serenite is Celtic inspired sim evoking the feeling of being in the countrysides of Scotland and Ireland. Serenite is open to all, feel free to wander and enjoy. 
􀀛

Furnation Worlds - The Great Tree
     Gathering place for furs.  The Furnation sims are vast and worth exploring for all furs and budding furs.􀀜

NorthStar - Dream Big!
     Furry central.  Sandbox, games, shopping, hang out.
􀀐

Greenies
     How does one describe this?  I don't know except to say -- you'll be going down the rabbit hole.  Go, explore, enjoy and be amazed.  Be very amazed.
􀀂

The Pond
     Wow... just... wow.  So much to do in one place and often frequented by very helpful people.  This is what community is all about.
􀀁

Acropolis Gardens
     A four sim garden with a guided tour!
􀀝

Please also visit the following website to search for beautiful places to visit in world:  http://www.virtualparksandrec.com/  Once at the website, click Search and then narrow down your parameters.


DANCING

PHAT CAT'S FORMAL MALL and Jazzy Blue lounge
     Phat Cat's Jazz lounge is a group of great people who love smooth jazz, relaxing tunes, and dancing in a romantic setting.  Please dress accordingly.
􀀧

Caribbean Breezes
     Jazz Club.  Formal dress requested.
􀀦

The Blue Note Retro Jazz Lounge
     BigBand & Swing Jazz 24/7, Retro Deco & Shag Art.  DJ Nay LIVE every Sat Night.  Dress and behaviour code appreciated.
􀀘

Club Rainbow Tiger
     This Club is open to all weather you are Gay, Bi, Straight, Furry, Human, Purple, Green, your head backwards or, dead. Anyone is welcome here and everyone should respect that. 
􀀑

~ Lucrezia Lamont