INTRODUCTION

     Don't rush into anything, including purchases.  Shop around, see what else is available.  Also, check for the price of the same item on SLX (http://www.slexchange.com/) as sometimes vendors have it cheaper in SLX than in world.

     If there's a demo, try it first!  Not everything will suit your image or tastes.  Even if you think it will look good, it might not once you try the demo.

     The following are "links", known as Landmarks, that when clicked on will take you to a specific location in SL.  

     Sadly, some places move or vanish from SL, so not all Landmarks may "work".  If you are not taken to the right place, then you can trying using the SEARCH button to find their new location.  Please report any "dead" Landmarks to me -- thanks.  Moreover, please tell me of any great Landmarks I might have missed!

     These particular Landmarks will take you to various places where you can shop or obtain things such as freebies.  As a side note, freebies can be good to learn from if you are keen on content creation.


UNPACKING BOXES

     When you buy an item, it will either appear in your inventory ready to be used (i.e. worn).  Usually these objects will appear in their own folder.  OR  The item will be "boxed" and you'll need to unpack the box first (unless you fancy wearing the box on a body part -- see notecard called "4.5. Removing Boxes from Body Parts & Unpacking Boxes").  

     Boxes usually appear in a folder in your inventory called [Objects] -- but not always.  Click and drag the box to the ground in a region where this is permitted (if you see a "box with a slash through it" in the main SL window on top of your screen, then you cannot rez (drag) the box there.  Feel free to visit:  􀀁 or a sandbox to unpack your boxes and relax (but please clean up after yourself).  

     With the box on the ground before you, right click and choose [Open] and then [Copy To Inventory].  You should then have a folder of goodies waiting for you in your inventory.  Once you've verified that the items transferred to your inventory, right click the box and either (a) delete it by pressing <Delete> (if it's empty) or (b) [Take] it back into your inventory as a copy or backup of those items.  I usually "file" the box in the folder of unpacked items.


NOTE ON LANDMARKS

     When you click on a Landmark link in a notecard, it may not take you directly to that location (you have been diverted by a telehub or Landing Point).  A Landmark is broken down like this:  Name of Place, Sim Name (coordinates).  Most important are the Sim Name and coordinates.  If you hover your mouse cursor over a Landmark link, you will see the full Landmark if it's visually cut off.  I have tried to Landmark exact coordinates, often within a specific location or shop, but you may be teleported to a general location.  Look at the top of your screen, you will see your current coordinates.  

     If you do not appear where I have indicated in the Landmark link, you can open your Map (click [Map] at the bottom of the screen), enter the Sim Name in the [Search] text box, press the Enter key or [Search], and then enter the three numbered coordinates below in [Location].  Then click [Teleport].  If you still don't end up at that exact location in the Landmark link, look around your screen for a red beacon and red arrow -- follow it to the destination.

     Unfortunately, if people move things, you still may not end up exactly where I intended you to be.  If that's the case, it's time to explore :-)  Obviously if it's clear that venue no longer exists at that location, you will need to resort to the [Search] at the bottom of your screen.


PRIMS

     Prims are short for "primitive objects". Everything in SL is made out of prims. Each parcel of land has a prim limit. Once this limit is reached no more prims can be rezzed or placed on the land.

     As such, the real commodity is not land, but prims.  All items (houses, furnishings, toys etc.) require prims and the more prims at your disposal, the more items you can set up.  Buyer beware when shopping -- you'll quickly value high quality and low prim items.  Budget about 100 prims for each room in a house (easily).  Unfortunately, running out of prims also leads to impulse buying and often a raise in tier fees ;-)

     It should be pointed out that a prim is not a singular object like a chair, but that the chair is made out of several prims. Not all objects are created equal in terms of prim count.  Similar items (like chairs) can have wildly different prim counts but look almost the same, so it pays to shop around and compare prim counts for items you wish to buy for your home. 

     Right click on the object you wish to check and click on [Edit…]. In the newly opened window, click on the [More >>] button.  Click the [General] tab. The object’s prim quantity is located on the sixth blue line and will display as follows:  x Object, y Primitives (where x and y are numeric values).  For example, a chair may indicate:  1 Object, 14 Primitives.  The quantity of Primitives is your prim number.  In the aforementioned example, the chair comprises of 14 prims.


FREEBIES

     At this time, if you have no money, then perhaps a brief camping stint might be in order.  Type "camping" in the [Search] on the bottom of your screen and you'll find some places to earn a few Linden Dollars.

     If you don't mind searching through a blog on the web, this is a fantastic blog listing places with free or nearly free items.  http://fabfree.wordpress.com/  

FREEBIE WAREHOUSE 5,000+ Totally Free Items
     These are unsorted and quality varies.  If you're bored or enthusiastic, have fun.  Think of it like a used "junk" shop -- gems may be found if you hunt hard enough and one man's junk is another's treasure.
􀀈

Sarah Nerd's Freebie Paradise Quality items for new players!
     Well laid out, tonnes of various freebies.
􀀇

The Free Dove
     A Place for New Residents to enjoy grabbing a great free complete outfit, accessories, shape or skin by the best established designers.
􀀣

The GNUbie Store in Indigo
     Nicely laid out freebie store with a variety of items ranging from free to L$1.
􀀛

Calla
     Hair, Jack & Jill in a Box, Various and Sundry.
􀀊

YadNi s Junkyard 
     Tonnes of freebies of all sorts, and all quality.  If you have time and don't mind digging, you may find a gem.  Also, if you want to learn to build, reverse engineering freebies is often a good teaching method.  There's always much to be improved upon and you may find a new passion!
􀀢

Freebie Jeebies
     A selection of freebies and L$1 items for the fashion seeker.
􀀠

Vienna Freebie Stores
     Clothing, Hair, Shoes, Furry avs, anything!
􀀑

Enkythings
     1$ shop, plus many freebies - mostly women's clothing
􀀐

Freebie dungeon
     Unsorted freebies, many boxed items
􀀡

Black Moon
     Various freebie skins, eyes, shapes and poses from multiple creators for women.
􀀕     

Nyte'N'Day Newb Tool Kit
     A kit included skin, shapes, AO and clothes for the female newbie.
􀀍    

Awesome Designs Dollar Store
     A segment of their main store contains a Dollar Store with a selection of women's fashions.
􀀌     

Avatar by PixelDolls
     Celeste -- a kit of free women's clothing from their store.
􀀅     

Illusions
     Complete avatar kit for men and women plus many other fun items.  This is a high quality mask and accessories store, so the freebies are guaranteed to please.
􀀋

Another Shop (by Eloh Eliot)
     A series of full perm skins to experiment with or use.
􀀝     

MIA
     Free skins, eyes, clothes and more for men and women.
 􀀤    
     

     For more freebies and inexpensive items, click [Search] at the bottom of your screen and type "free", "freebies", "freebie", "1L", "10L" etc. into the [Find:] field of the [All].  This will result in a massive list of shops carrying freebies, which you may have to hunt through for the actual free items, but you may find items worth having in your inventory.


QUALITY* SHOPS FOR BUILDING YOUR AVATAR
*(this is a subjective opinion, I realize)

::: BareRose :::  HQ
     Bare Rose Tokyo Inexpensive fun clothing and accessories.
􀀉

Nevermore Studios
     Clothing, various and sundry.
􀀆

Miriel 
     Eyes and jewelry.
􀀗

primOptic eyewear
     Quality eyewear products.  Very handy -- these glasses come loaded with goodies.
􀀞

[MADesigns]
     Shapes for men (and now women).
􀀓

Naughty Island 
     Skins.
􀀟

The Body Politik
     Skins, shapes, hair and clothing.
􀀒

Temenos Island 
     Neko, clothing, hair and more!
􀀔

Luskwood
     Furry avatars
􀀖

FurNation Worlds Mall
     Furry mall for all your furry needs.
􀀜

Lost Furest
     Furry avatars from multiple vendors.
􀀄   

Curious Kitties
     Clothing, hair, accessories and more for a kitty (or even if you're not a kitty).
􀀙

Forever Tiny
     Tiny avatars and accessories
􀀏

Tail of Two Kitties
     All manner of lovely AOs.
􀀘

Endless Dreams Animation Overriders
     Absolutely wonderful AOs with a Japanese spin.
􀀂

Nordberg Engineering
     ZHAO for building your own AO.
􀀎

Mystical Cookie Designs
     Gadgets of all sorts, including the famous MystiTool HUD
􀀚

Valentino's Scripted Cards
     Personalized and Customized Greetings Cards, Flowers and Gifts.
􀀃


ADDITIONAL RESOURCES (GUIDES FROM OTHER AVATARS)

     Click the notecard(s) below to open and read.

􀀀

~ Lucrezia Lamont