INVENTORY TIPS

Staying on top of your inventory to prevent insanity is difficult.  However, perhaps these tips can assist:

     1.  Make a FREEBIE folder (open your Inventory, click the Inventory menu's Create> New Folder) for all your freebies.  Most of these items you'll eventually discard.  Move the gems to other folders as appropriate.

     2.  Make back-ups.  If your purchases allow COPY, then keep back-ups BEFORE you modify, wear or do anything with the item.  I will create a folder in an item's directory and label it "Orig" or "Original", and place a copy (right click the item and Copy, then right click the Orig folder and Paste) of the item in that folder.  If I need another copy of the same item because I mangled it while editing it, I'll copy and paste from the Original folder into the main folder.

     3.  Landmark (LM) any place that you find appealing (it's really annoying when you can't remember where that really cool set of eyes were that you found at some shop).  Edit the name (right click the Landmark and Rename) to something that will help you keep LMs organized (i.e. preface a LM's name with "clothes", "shapes", "skins", etc.).

     4.  Below is one organization method for inventory.  Create folders with each of the headings outlined as needed.  This system may or may not work for you.  I'm still debating its merits myself.  But if it's a starting place or helps, great!

IMPORTANT NOTE:  Due to a current SL bug, notecards within notecards do not always work properly.  If the notecard links below do not open into a separate notecard, or if you need to add your own notes to the notecards (edit them), please drag the notecard links below into your inventory and the notecard will appear behind this one for you to read or edit.

􀀀


ADDITIONAL WEB RESOURCES

Inventory Management
     https://support.secondlife.com/ics/support/KBList.asp?folderID=69


Finding Lost Items
     https://support.secondlife.com/ics/support/KBList.asp?folderID=110

~ Lucrezia Lamont