INTRODUCTION

     Some do, and some don't.  Some start out saying "no, not interested in pixel bumping", but then give it a try.  And others come into SL for the virtual sex, get bored, and find scripting or building more to their liking.  Regardless, this notecard is for those wishing to explore the sexual side of SL.  A defence of sexual practices in all their forms will not be addressed.  If you wish to explore sex or kink here, do so.  If you don't, don't.  It's that simple.


WHO HAS SEX?

     Humans, furries, and more.  Gay, straight, bisexual, transgender, and more.  Does it matter?  No.  


HOW TO HAVE SEX

     Sex can happen between avatars with one touching another's body part, resulting in a reaction from the receiver.  This occurs through scripted body parts (i.e. genitalia).

     Sex can also happen by using "pose balls" which will animate you with appropriate sexual activities.
     
     Sex happens on MLP (multi love pose) furniture, which will provide you with numerous options (cuddles, kisses, sex of all flavours).  MLP furniture is nice in that one can change positions from a menu without "standing".

     Sex can also occur by way of employing a HUD (Heads-up Display), which is an interface that appears on your screen to interact with others who have compatible HUDs.


ROLE-PLAYING SEX

     You have a choice between (1) typing your role play actions and voice in IM or Chat (IM is a good idea as it ensures privacy -- Chat can be heard 20 m away) OR (2) relying on the sounds and/or text provided by scripted genitals or HUDs OR (3) a combination of the aforementioned.  It's all about personal preference.

     If you do opt to use genitals and HUDs, learn them to the best of your ability before an encounter.  If you don't like your script genitals to RP for you, it's best you learn how to deactivate that feature first.


BODY PARTS

     You can male and female genitals, asses, nipples and more scripted body parts that are sensitive to sexual stimulation.  While there is "substance" to male genitals, there is usually no physical representation for female genitals, nipples, asses etc.  They are invisible prims that attach to the appropriate body part so when stimulated, cause you to react accordingly (yes, some systems even allow you to set up your kinks and interests).


TRIAL AND SHOPPING

     Shop around and if you can, try a friend's system before you buy.  Most pose ball, sex furniture and MLP furniture shops allow you try out their wares.  PLEASE do so fully clothed and respect people around you.


ADDITIONAL RESOURCES

     A great article by Lindal Kidd regarding SL Sex.
     
     IMPORTANT NOTE:  Due to a current SL bug, notecards within notecards do not always work properly.  If the notecard links below do not open into a separate notecard, or if you need to add your own notes to the notecards (edit them), please drag the notecard links below into your inventory and the notecard will appear behind this one for you to read or edit.
􀀎
      
          
SOME PLACES TO SHOP AT (in no particular order)

Xcite! 
     Body parts for all persuasions, plus scripted items (i.e. BDSM paddles, restraints etc.).
􀀆

Sensations
     Body parts for all, lots of scripted items, pose balls and more.
􀀄

Corsi's Creations Sexgen Diamond
     Pose Balls, Sex Animations, BDSM toys, Sex Beds (SexGen Diamond here).
􀀏

SexGen Superstore
     Beds, and toys.
􀀍

Bits and Bobs
     Complete selection of kiss, cuddle and sex animations pose balls, couple dance sets, wedding sets, multipacks, gestures.
􀀋

Abranimations
     Numerous animations and poses of all sorts.
􀀈

Pillow Talk
     Original animations, from intimate couples to eating popcorn. 
􀀀

Neva Naughty
     Multi Menu Driven Sex Furniture
􀀊   

Deviant
     Providing quality BDSM and sexual furniture for your enjoyment.
􀀁

KDC Shop
     Gothic BDSM and fetish creators of clothing and accessories.
􀀇

Mystical Bondage
     A place to play and meet other like minded BDSM people .
􀀂

Desperation Isle
Shopping, role-playing.
􀀃

Dark Delights
     All manner of items to buy, including darker equipment.
􀀌

Silken Pleasures
     Gorean Market,Pleasure Retreat & More!
􀀉

Furpleasure Market
     Popular shopping area for furry related items.
􀀅


SOME PLACES/GROUPS TO LEARN FROM (in no particular order)

D/s academy
     A group that meets for discussion and provides teaching on numerous aspects of SL BDSM.
     [Search] for the above name to learn more.
     
University of Submission
     An excellent place with classes on SL BDSM.  Highly recommended.
 􀀐    

~ Lucrezia Lamont