INTRODUCTION

     See other notecards for more details on how to do the following.  This is just a quick overview.  Therefore, one of the first things you may wish to do is find a quiet place to sit and read some of these notecards.  Try any of the following places for relaxation and quiet (click to TP there):
􀀈
􀀄
􀀃
􀀂

     1.  Explore and use the Search (I love random searches for all kinds of cool key words).

     2.  Obtain freebie items from various vendors.  It's amazing how many vendors will have freebie boxes for newbies -- usually older or "teaser" creations.  They're fun to collect and try.  Usually they're located at the entrance of a shop if they have them.

     3.  Edit your shape or buy one.  Don't forget to save different versions along the way.

     4.  Make or buy a skin.  Buy lots of demos.  Don't forget to try skins on while wearing underwear (if you're in a public place).

     5.  Realize that there are two ways you can interact with an object (i.e. sit on a chair/couch/bed).  Either (a) right click the item and choose the appropriate action from the resulting PIE MENU (i.e. "sit"), OR (b) click/touch the item and you will receive an interactive menu popup giving you various choices (click your way through the meny as appropriate).

     6.  Make or buy some clothes.  They can be fun to experiment with.

     7.  Explore and use the Search.  (yes, this bears repeating... constantly)

     8.  Make friends (if you haven't already).  If you're shy or need help, try a Tiny or non-human avatar!  Consider joining some Groups (use the [Search] at the bottom of the screen, then click the [Groups] tab and search for your interests).  Attending events (Search> Events> Category...) can also make you some new friends.

     9.  Repeat 7 and 8 and eventually you'll find your stride, SL will find you, and you'll discover your SL passion. 

     10.  Find a nice place to set your home to (click on the main menu's World> Set Home to Here once you are where you wish to set your home position).  I suggest a quiet corner of a public garden.  You can change your home location any time.  Please feel free to use any of the following:
􀀇
􀀆
􀀅

     11.  Just fly!

     12.  Click the [Search] button on the bottom of your screen, go to the [Events] tab, pick a [Category] you're in the mood for and review the results.  Education will provide courses on building and more!

     13.  Fill in your Profile.  You will find that people, on the whole, are a lot more responsive when you have some basic information in your Profile.  Giving our RL (1st life) information is at your discretion, but have fun with your SL Profile.  And don't forget to add a picture when you have L$10 to spare and take a snapshot of yourself in your favourite SL hang out.

     To edit your Profile, right click yourself and click [Profile...].  Fill in whatever you're comfortable with.

     Don't forget to add places to your Picks and fill out the other tabs as you have the time and inclination.
     
     14.  Take a snapshot of yourself and transfer the snapshot to your Profile.  Click File> Take Snapshot> Upload a snapshot.  The rest should be self explanatory.  Open your Profile, click where a photo should be of your 2nd life and choose the snapshot from your inventory.

     15.  Check out Pathfinder Linden's latest 10 cool places to explore (􀀉).  Obtain the latest list for Parks & Recreation regions (􀀁).


ADDITIONAL RESOURCES (DIRECTLY FROM THE SECOND LIFE FORUMS)

     Click the notecard(s) below to open and read.
     
􀀊    

􀀋

􀀀

􀀌
     
~ Lucrezia Lamont