INTRODUCTION

     I understand one of the most commonly asked questions is "how do I make money?", thusly, I've decided to summarize a response here.
     
     Second Life is not a game, but it is a virtual world, filled with real people (behind the avatars) who have feelings.  Real life is very much reflected in Second Life except that one doesn't NEED money to live here, but it does help.


DO NOT...

Beg for money.
Tell people that you NEED money.
Pull a scam that takes money from someone else.
Sell freebies or near freebies.

     You will get a reputation and you will put others off and your entire experience in SL will be greatly diminished.  If you don't wish it done to you, don't do it to someone else.  Karma is a swift Mistress in SL.


OPTIONS FOR INCREASING YOUR WEALTH

Buy Linden Dollars

     Yes, you read that correctly.  If you have real life money that you consider disposable or part of your "entertainment" allowance, you may buy actual Linden Dollars.

     Learn all about it here:  https://secure-web2.secondlife.com/currency/buy.php


Camping

     At the moment, the more people that frequent a location, the higher up the rankings their location will appear when people perform a search incorporating the same key words used in the listing.  Location owners unnaturally inflate this number by paying people to be on their land.  This is a contentious practice, but if you need a few Linden Dollars to purchase some of the near-freebies outlined in this kit, then this is one option.

     Career camping is no way to make "serious" money in Second Life, but it can give you a little change for buying demos and near freebies.  Using the [Search] button at the bottom of your screen, type "camping" in the [Find:] field of the [All] tab, and then [Search] to display many places you can go "camp" for a few L$.

     Once you arrive, look for "camping chairs" or items that will proclaim to pay you a certain number of L$ for a certain amount of time you sit/stand/dance etc. there.  Usually you right click the chair or item and then "sit" or whatever appears in that slice of the pie menu on the upper left side of the pie.


Make Things

     Yes, you can make things to sell to others.  Learn a trade -- building, scripting, textures and more.   Making and selling items (creating content) in Second Life is likely the most honourable way of making money.


Money Trees

     Scattered around Second Life are trees containing money or items (i.e. fruit) that can be clicked on to receive money.  These are donations from other individuals (thanking the owner is a nice idea).  Money trees usually only respond to avatars less than 30 days old, so it's a nice way for new residents to make a little money.

     NEVER pay anyone for a guide or list of money trees.  It's more than likely a scam and you will be ripped off.  Don't do it.

     Using the [Search] button at the bottom of your screen, type "money tree" in the [Find:] field of the [All] tab, and then [Search] to display many places you can harvest some L$.


Surveys aka Hippiepay et al

     Don't.  Just... don't.  You'll spend all sorts of time filling out useless questionnaires and then usually NOT receive any money for your efforts.

     If it seems too good to be true, it probably is.


Contests

     Some clubs and events have contests where you can win a, more or less, popularity contest.  Check events and look for contests.  You'll put you're name up on a board and then engage those in your environment.  Attendees of the event will vote for their favourite, and if you're it, you win the pot of money.

     These events can be a lot of fun, even if you don't win.  However, there are those who've made a career out of earning their pocket change by frequenting such events and really playing to the crowd -- everyone has a good time then.


Investments, Banks & Schemes

     Most investment opportunities, banks and money make schemes are scams.  Banks are unnecessary.  SL is too unstable to entertain investing.  Pyramid, ponzi and similar "schemes" are not an answer either.  It's best to not go there.


Gambling

     Gambling is no longer permitted in Second Life.  Even if you do find gambling machines, remember that they are programmed and easily programmed to favour the house.  Unless gambling with other players, you will likely lose in the long run.


Bouncing, Bartending, Hosting, Etc.

     Some clubs and venues will pay people to act as bouncers, bartenders, hosts, and sundry other jobs suited to such environments.  You likely need connections for such a situation, but it doesn't hurt to flog your skills on the forums and see if someone is in need.  Alternatively, if you have a favourite hang out, approach the owner to see if they have need of your skills.


Escort & Dancing

     And just like in real life, you can make money at the ever present and oldest profession in the world.  You can be an escort or dancer in a club.  Most establishments will take a cut of your earnings for providing advertising space, a place to earn money etc.

     As in all things, the best escorts and dancers are those who truly enjoy what they are doing and can certainly play to the people.  I'd only recommend this if you really wish to have fun with this activity.  This is not a profession too engage in just because you need money.


Starting a Business in SL

     The following notecard is a concise summary of how to start a business in SL.
     
 􀀁
     
     
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES (DIRECTLY FROM THE SECOND LIFE FORUMS)

     Click the notecard(s) below to open and read.     
     
   􀀀  
   
   􀀂
     
~ Lucrezia Lamont