INTRODUCTION

     You can walk around SL, which is preferable in most locations.  However, if you have a long distance to travel or wish to explore, you may opt to fly.  Try flying low to the ground (without the flight feather if need be as it may raise you higher than your visibility range) so that you can see the ground regions.  Also, if you fly too fast, the world doesn't have a chance to rez in so you may miss great builds.  Fly, hover, fly hover...
     
     Unfortunately, there are "no fly" zones in SL which means once you land, you can't fly from that spot in order to leave.  However, very good friend BW Jinxing reported that you can fly in a no fly zone if you activate the following from your main menu:  Client> View Admin Options (if you do not see the Client and Server menu options on your screen, press {Ctrl + Alt + d> on the PC or <Mac key + Alt + d> on the MAC).  Importantly, flying in a no fly zone may may result in your being banned from that parcel -- so be careful.

     You can also use a vehicle.  I've included a free Magic Carpet with this New SL Resident kit.  Drag it onto the ground, right click and [Fly].  Up to six people can fly on the carpet.  Type "help" (without quotation marks) in the Chat to learn the commands that operate the magic carpet.


LANDMARKS

     Landmarks are denoted by a tan (if you haven't been there before) or red (if you've visited that Landmark previously) coloured push pin.
     
     You can click on Landmarks from within your inventory, on a notecard or from a location within a person's profile's [Picks] and [Classified] tab (click [Teleport]).
     
     Landmarks may not take you to their precise location as they may have an override placing you in another location as set by the owner of the land.  If you do not appear at that exact location as indicated in the Landmark link, look around your screen for a red beacon and red arrow -- follow it to the destination.  Once you've arrived and if the red arrow is still bothersome on your screen, click it to make it vanish.


TELEPORT

     You may have specific coordinates from some source.  They would appear as:  Black Art (248, 8, 56).  Black Art is the sim name and the three numbers in parentheses are the XYZ coordinates.

     Open your Map (click [Map] at the bottom of the screen), enter the Sim Name in the [Search] text box, press the <Enter> key or click [Search], and then enter the three numbered coordinates below in [Location].  Then click [Teleport].  If you still don't end up at that exact location in the Landmark link, look around your screen for a red beacon and red arrow -- follow it to the destination.

     You can always just open up the Map and scout around.  Once you see a place you think you'd like to go (i.e. a place with people if you're feeling social), then double click that location on the map or click once and then [Teleport].  Take note of symbols and their meaning as this may be useful information.

     You can offer a friend a teleport to your location (they will appear in front of you so be mindful of your surroundings) by clicking [Friends] on the bottom of your screen, clicking their name and then [Teleport...].  

     You can offer someone a teleport to your location (they will appear in front of you so be mindful of your surroundings) by opening their profile and then clicking [Offer Teleport...].  

     Profiles are informative and provide LMs to a person's favourite places which may soon become your favourite places too!  So if you meet someone you like or that you have something in common with, don't forget to view their Picks and Classifieds for landmarks to teleport to.


BAN LINES

     Ban lines are considered rude by most individuals.  Usually erected to keep others out, the owners desire their privacy.  Unfortunately, ban lines prevent people and vehicles from traversing through the property and can cause issues with vehicles.  There are better, non disruptive security systems available (not everyone uses them), but do watch for ban lines (you won't see them until you pretty much run into the property, sadly).

~ Lucrezia Lamont