YATO-BF 0.2 - Yet Another Texture Organizer - But Free

Congratulations, you have found a full functional texture organizer as free as
it can be. You get the sources under the terms of the GNU Public License, for
further information about restrictions and rights are enclosed in the notecard
"GNU License" which comes with the package.

How das YATO-BF works?

YATO-BF is organized by notecard files in the content forlder of the main prim.
Each notecard file can be understood as a category you like. With YATO-BF
comes six categories with standard textures as an example set.

When you stay in front of YATO-BF you will see arrows to the left and right
to page through your texture. In the middle you see a blue boxed button
which opens a menu when you click on it. In this menu you choose the
category (notecard) you like to see.

In the same menu you can push the "NEW CATEGORY" button to create the
content for a new notecard. This process is a bit complex because of the
limitations of LSL.

A keydumper bin will appear. Please select the "Edit" on the pie menu. Click
on the "More >>" button on the bottom right side of the edit panel. In the
"Content" tab of the edit panel you will see two entries in there, the GNU License
and the keydumper script.  Now drag the textures into the "Contents" folder.
You have to wait for 30 seconds, the keydumper will keep you informed.

When the keydumper bin finished its work you got messages in you chat
history window. Open your chat history window and copy all entries with the
following layout:

with timestamp:
[hh:mm] keydumper: (imagename,00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000)
without timestamp:
keydumper: (imagename,00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000)

When you did that, open a notecard (there are already 10 empty notecards
in the "Contents" folder of the YATO-BF) and paste the copied lines into the
notecard. The notecard, suprise, must be in the "Contents" folder of your
YATO-BG.

You don't need to use the keydumper bin method, the layout of the notecard
files is very easy. It is, in parantheses with comma separated, first the texture
name, second the UUID of the texture.

Have fun with this great tool.

tx Oh.

