Congratulations on your acquisition of the Aeroscraft ML866 !

--

Using your Aeroscraft:

    # Sit on the piloting seat in the cockpit section to pilot your Aeroscraft. Movement is forward/backward and turning left/right with the keys, going higher/lower with the PageUp/PageDown keys. Shift-Left/Right will strafe the Aeroscraft laterally.

    # Camera control is automatic. There are five different camera positions set in the Aeroscraft for every sort of movement except turning. Each is activated beyond half of the maximum speed: this means that the camera will switch to the "forward-going" position when the Aeroscraft is going forward at more than half-speed (and similarly for vertical and lateral movement).

    # The lateral door is operated by clicking on its metallic axis, situated at the junction of the door with the inside floor.
    
    # The doors, shower curtain and the shower itself are functional: just click them.
    
    # The lamps are automatic, they light up at dawn, night and dusk.

    # Remote control of the Aeroscraft is possible using the /130 prefix and any of the following commands:
        - "m1", "m0" and "m-1" control the forward/backward movement, by respectively setting full ahead, stop and full-rear speeds
        - "r1", "r0" and "r-1" control the turning, respectively left, straight ahead and right
        - "v1", "v0" and "v-1" control the vertical movement, respectively up, level and down
        - "l1", "l0" and "l-1" control the strafing movement, respectively left, stop and right
        - "k" will delete the Aeroscraft immediately
        (example: say "/130 m1" and "/130 "r1" to have the Aeroscraft run in a left-turning circle, then "/130 m0" and "/130 r0" to stop it, then "/130 k" to delete the airship) Note: you can also send these commands from a script in order to autopilot your airship.

Modifying and copying the Aeroscraft:

    # This airship is LiberatedContent, this means it should have been brought to you with FULL PERMISSIONS, down to the last script and pose it contains. You can copy it, modify it any way you like, and resell it. Just mind that if you resell it you'll be in competition with every single other person who bought it already, so you cannot expect to make a living on it if you don't significantly improve it.

    # Don't use more than one Aeroscraft within 100 meters of another of your own, or else they will both try to move each other's parts and end up fusing together in a very messy way.

    # If you create a new version of the Aeroscraft, it is a good idea to change the value of "offchan" in all the movement scripts (move 0 through move 7 in the sections, and also in the main script that resides in the piloting seat), so that your new vehicle runs on a different set of channels for movement and does not fuse with other Aeroscrafts of your own.

Caveats:
    # Because it is LiberatedContent, this airship was probably sold or given to you by someone other than myself, Jesrad Seraph, creator of it. If you have complaints about the airship itself, how it looks, works and can be customised, you can send them to me, but anything else should better be addressed to the person who got it to you.