The set of two scripts for the automatic updating of your products.

The first script is used for the server. The server has to be permanently rezzed in SL because it processes all requests from the update clients.

The second script is intended for your product for which you want to use the automatic updating.

All scripts are sold with full permissions and can be modified as you need. The setup of automatic updating isn't difficult and can be done during a moment.

How to set up Auto Update

1) Insert the "Update Server" script to an object that will be used as Update Server.
2) This object has to be permanently rezzed in-world.
3) Insert the "Update Client" script to an object that should be updated.
4) Create and insert the notecard called "Update Config" to the Update Server object.
5) Use this notecard to specify the name, most recent version and name of the object that will be send as an update.
6) Enter one update config per line and separate the values with "|" character. Example: Product Name|2.0|Product Update
7) Insert the object used for the update to the Contents tab of the Update Server object.
8) Write the name and version of your product to the PRODUCT_NAME and PRODUCT_VERSION variables in the "Update Client" script.

How to release a new version of your product

1) Increase the PRODUCT_VERSION number in the "Update Client" script of newly released item.
2) Create a new package for this updated item (this package will be delivered as an update).
3) Replace the previous version of your item in the server Contents tab with the new package.
4) Change the version number in the server "Update Config" notecard to the most recent version.
5) All users with an older version than is specified in the "Update Config" notecard should receive an update.

Using the auto discovery feature
This feature prevents the loss of the server key when the update server is returned to the inventory and rezzed again.

1) Check if the UPDATE_SERVER_KEY variable is set to TRUE in the both scripts.
2) Write your own shared secret value to the SHARED_SECRET variable. This value has to be same for the both scripts and is used for the secure communication between the server and clients.

Disabling the auto discovery feature
Use this if you don't want to use the server discovery and want to set up the server key manually.

1) Set the UPDATE_SERVER_KEY variable in the both scripts to FALSE.
2) Touch the Update Server object.
3) The Update Server writes a server key to your chat window.
4) Use this key for the replacement of the SERVER_KEY variable in the "Update Client" script.

The updates are checked always when the object is rezzed in-world or attached to an avatar. The manual update can be triggered through "/12update" command.

If you need to disable notifications about the successful updates use the NOTIFY_OWNER variable in the "Update Server" script.

Resell and copying of these scripts with full permissions is not permitted.

Please don't forget to restrict the script permissions for next users before you start to sale your product!

All future updates are available to all legal owners for free. Write me to get a latest version.

Feel free to contact me with any questions or for help with the configuration.

Ion Horten